.TH BITCOIN-CLI "1" "January 2018" "bitcoin-cli v0.16.99.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
bitcoin-cli \- manual page for bitcoin-cli v0.16.99.0
.SH DESCRIPTION
Bitcoin Core RPC client version v0.16.99.0
.SS "Usage:"
.TP
bitcoin\-cli [options] <command> [params]
.TP
bitcoin\-cli [options] \fB\-named\fR <command> [name=value] ...
Send command to Bitcoin Core (with named arguments)
.TP
bitcoin\-cli [options] help
.TP
bitcoin\-cli [options] help <command>
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \-?
This help message
.IP \fB\-conf=\fR<file>
Specify configuration file (default: bitcoin.conf)
.IP \fB\-datadir=\fR<dir>
Specify data directory
.IP \fB\-getinfo\fR
Get general information from the remote server. Note that unlike
server\-side RPC calls, the results of \fB\-getinfo\fR is the result of
multiple non\-atomic requests. Some entries in the result may
represent results from different states (e.g. wallet balance may
be as of a different block from the chain state reported)
.PP
Chain selection options:
.IP \fB\-testnet\fR
Use the test chain
.IP \fB\-regtest\fR
Enter regression test mode, which uses a special chain in which blocks
can be solved instantly. This is intended for regression testing
tools and app development.
.IP \fB\-named\fR
Pass named instead of positional arguments (default: false)
.IP \fB\-rpcclienttimeout=\fR<n>
Timeout in seconds during HTTP requests, or 0 for no timeout. (default:
900)
.IP \fB\-rpcconnect=\fR<ip>
Send commands to node running on <ip> (default: 127.0.0.1)
.IP \fB\-rpcpassword=\fR<pw>
Password for JSON\-RPC connections
.IP \fB\-rpcport=\fR<port>
Connect to JSON\-RPC on <port> (default: 8332 or testnet: 18332)
.IP \fB\-rpcuser=\fR<user>
Username for JSON\-RPC connections
.IP \fB\-rpcwait\fR
Wait for RPC server to start
.IP \fB\-rpcwallet=\fR<walletname>
Send RPC for non\-default wallet on RPC server (argument is wallet
filename in bitcoind directory, required if bitcoind/\-Qt runs
with multiple wallets)
.IP \fB\-stdin\fR
Read extra arguments from standard input, one per line until EOF/Ctrl\-D
(recommended for sensitive information such as passphrases).
When combined with \fB\-stdinrpcpass\fR, the first line from standard
input is used for the RPC password.
.IP \fB\-stdinrpcpass\fR
Read RPC password from standard input as a single line.
When combined
with \fB\-stdin\fR, the first line from standard input is used for the
RPC password.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2009-2018 The Bitcoin Core developers

Please contribute if you find Bitcoin Core useful. Visit
<https://bitcoincore.org> for further information about the software.
The source code is available from <https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin>.

This is experimental software.
Distributed under the MIT software license, see the accompanying file COPYING
or <https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT>

This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project for use in the
OpenSSL Toolkit <https://www.openssl.org> and cryptographic software written by
Eric Young and UPnP software written by Thomas Bernard.
