.TH BITCOIN-CLI "1" "February 2015" "bitcoin-cli 0.10" 
.SH NAME
bitcoin-cli \- the remote procedure call client for bitcoin core. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
bitcoin-cli [options] <command> [params] \- Send command to Bitcoin Core. 
.TP
bitcoin-cli [options] help \- List Bitcoin Core commands.
.TP
bitcoin [options] help <command> \- Get help for a command.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents the bitcoin-cli program. bitcoin-cli is the RPC client used to send commands to Bitcoin Core.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-conf=\fR<file>
Specify configuration file (default: bitcoin.conf)
.TP
\fB\-datadir=\fR<dir>
Specify data directory
.TP
\fB\-testnet\fR
Use the test network
.TP
\fB\-regtest\fR
Enter regression test mode, which uses a special chain in which blocks can be solved instantly. This is intended for regression testing tools and app development.
.TP
\fB\-rpcuser=\fR<user>
Username for JSON\-RPC connections
.TP
\fB\-rpcpassword=\fR<pw>
Password for JSON\-RPC connections
.TP
\fB\-rpcport=\fR<port>
Listen for JSON\-RPC connections on <port> (default: 8332 or testnet: 18332)
.TP
\fB\-rpcconnect=\fR<ip>
Send commands to node running on <ip> (default: 127.0.0.1)
.PP
SSL options: (see the Bitcoin Wiki for SSL setup instructions)
.TP
\fB\-rpcssl\fR=\fI1\fR
Use OpenSSL (https) for JSON\-RPC connections
.TP
\-?
This help message

.SH "SEE ALSO"
bitcoind.d(1), bitcoin.conf(5)
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Ciemon Dunville. Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 3 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation.


